
# AI Interview Bot 

So, we have created an interview bot, using Google gemini (which acts as the brain of the Bot because it asks the questions to the user and also finally evaluates the answers), fastapi (which acts as the connector between the backend and frontend) and React (which is used for making the interactive UI) also we are using google TTS and STT.

The Bot is currently programmed for asking "computer networks" and "machine learning" interview questions.

The bot asks 5-6 questions on the selected domain, then the user has to give the answer of the question using microphone and the bot finally evaluates the performance of the user giving constructive feedback for each question.

This bot was created for the TechSoc IIT Indore by Nityam Gupta, Nitin Yadav, Lavesh Motiyani and Shreyas Kale.



## Introduction

**Advantages of Interview Bot:**

Accessibility: Provides 24/7 availability for interviews, accommodating different time zones and schedules.

Reduced anxiety: Can alleviate the stress of live interviews by offering a more relaxed environment.

Practice opportunity: Can be used as a practice tool to prepare for real interviews.

Immediate feedback: Often provides instant or near-instant feedback on performance.
# How to Use

### What all program files should have been installed:

1. **python**

To install: [python](https://www.python.org/)

To check whether installed run this in cmd prompt:
```bash
  python --version
```
2. **node**

To install: [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en)

To check whether installed run this in cmd prompt:
```bash
  node --version
```

3. **yarn**

To installed: 
```bash
  npm install --global yarn
```
To check whether installed run this in cmd prompt:
```bash
  yarn --version
```
4. **ts-node**
To installed: 
```bash
  npm i ts-node
```
To check whether installed run this in cmd prompt:
```bash
  ts-node --version
```

5. **ffmpeg**
To installed: [ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/)


### pip Install the following in the backend directory:

```bash
  pip install -q -U google-generativeai
```
```bash
  pip install SpeechRecognition
```
```bash
  pip install PyDub
```
```bash
  pip install gTTS
```
```bash
  pip install python-decouple==3.8 python-multipart==0.0.6
  requests==2.28.2 fastapi==0.92.0
```
```bash
  pip install "uvicorn[standard]"
```
### execute the command in the frontend dir:
 ```bash
  yarn --exact
```

## To run the backend run this in terminal:
 ```bash
  cd backend
```
 ```bash
  uvicorn main:app
```

## To run the frontend run this in terminal:
 ```bash
  cd frontend
```
```bash
  yarn build 
  yarn start
```
or
 ```bash
  yarn dev
```
Now click on the link of the frontend webpage.





# Important User Notes

* Click on the Refresh button on the Title Div and say "Start" on the mic to begin the interview.

* Press the Mic button while answering the question, first finish speaking then un-press the button(This helps in better conversion of speech to text).

* Don't ask any clarification question to the question generated by the bot, because it is programmed such that it would understand it as the answer of the question.

* When building and starting the website for first time, it doesnt recognise "start", so please click on the refresh button(on the title bar) and again say "start" this time it wouldf recognise it. We are trying to fix this issue.

* When the audio play button is at the record icon level, you need to scroll up a bit and then click play, because it is in the div of the record icon, but the background is transparent.